This next question, number eight,
is my favorite question in this exercise.
My in-class university students would say, "That's dope."
So the question is basically saying
that some people think that Europeans purchased Manhattan,
which is the island that New York City is on.
They bought it for $24 in 1626.
And if you take that $24,
and if they put it in the bank back in 1626,
at an interest rate of 9.5%,
what would that be worth today?
A lot of people think, "My goodness,
"one party got shafted there.
"The other party did not get shafted.
"Which party is it?"
We don't know. We don't know.
But if we take every single item
on the island of Manhattan, every building,
and we add up all the property values
of all the buildings in Manhattan as of today,
you get $1.4 trillion.
I saw it online in print, so it must be true. (laughs)
So what is the future value of $24 back then, today?
Is it more than this or less than this?
So what do you think the answer's gonna be?
Let's see.
Okay, so, let's see, it was actually
just a one-time saving, rather than, say, annual saving.
One-time saving.
Okay, and, actually gonna change that.
One-time saving amount.
There you go.
Number of years, well we know it's...
What are we now, 2017, right, 2017
minus 1626, that's the number of years.
The annual interest rate is 9.5, okay.
And let's calculate this.
I want to do it myself.
So what we're gonna do is, because it's a one-time amount,
we're gonna calculate the future value of that $24.
So we're gonna take $24, and we're gonna multiply it
by one plus the interest rate,
in this case, 9.5%.
It's annual, so you don't have to worry about
dividing by 12 or multiplying by 12.
To the power of how many years?
Do my little chapeau here.
That's French for "hat," I think.
And then we'll do number of years here.
So watch this. Wait for it, wait for it.
There we go.
That is a huge number.
What is that, that's billions, trill--
Oh my god.
Wow. Wow. That is astonishing.
That is astonishing.
Pretty amazing, eh?
Moving on to question number nine,
and this is actually how I explain future value
of money to my kids.
So, one of my kids absolutely loves playing
Clash of Clans.
And if, hypothetically, I told him not to spend
₣10 monthly, which he certainly doesn't,
I won't allow that.
But let's say that instead of spending
₣10 every month to buy virtual gems
in Clash of Clans, he put that money in an investment
that made 12% annually.
So he would save ₣10 every single month,
instead of spending it on Clash of Clans
to buy a PEKKA, or whatever he calls those characters.
So what's he gonna have?
So here's what we're gonna do.
Right here, monthly savings is ₣10.
The number of years is 42.
That's 50 minus his age.
And then we've got 12.5% here,
so what's the value gonna be?
Well he's doing it monthly,
so I'm not gonna do the same formula
that I did last time, which was a one-time payment here.
I'm gonna use the Excel future value formula.
So watch this.
Equals minus one times future value,
and the rates, we know it's over 12 months,
divide by 12, comma,
number of years is 42, times 12,
that's 12 payments per year.
Comma, monthly savings is that.
There we go. ₣177,000.
And you can explain to him or your daughter if you have one
that with this amount of money you can buy
a ridiculously badass car.
Let's talk about the last question here.
And I have you fill out all the items here.
So let's say your 13-year-old son,
who thinks that money grows on trees,
oh, and by the way, my son, Andrew, who is 13,
I said, "Money doesn't grow on trees" to him.
He says, "Actually, Dad, they do. It's made out of paper."
I sent him to his room immediately.
Just kidding. Sort of.
So he wants to spend ₣4 every month on a hot dog
when he goes to the movie, ₣2 on a soda,
that's six so far.
₣3 on candy, nine,
and ₣10 on a movie ticket.
That's 19.
So he wants to spend ₣19 every single month
for the next 30 years.
Instead of eating at home for free,
which I put in quotes there.
So we have to calculate how much money he's gonna save
and what that amount will be worth in 30 years
at an annual rate of 14%.
So we know the monthly savings are gonna be ₣19,
the number of years is 30,
the annual interest rate in this example is 14%,
and so the future value of those amounts
can be calculated as follows.
Equals -1 times the future value,
I'm gonna go through this fast,
'cause we know how to do this now,
the number of periods, we know that it's
30 years times 12, comma.
I'm sorry, I made a mistake there.
See, I should not go fast.
The rate is 14% divided by 12, comma,
and the number of periods is 30 years times 12.
The older I get, the better I was.
See, I make mistakes.
And then the payments.
And then I can close brackets, and there we have it.
He would save ₣104,366 over 30 years
by eating for free and watching Netflix for free at home.